---
layout: default
title: Adopting CFEngine
published: true
sorting: 80
tags: [overviews, special topics, guide]
---

# What does adoption involve?

CFEngine is a framework and a methodology with far reaching implications for the
way you do IT management. The CFEngine approach asks you to think in terms
of promises and cooperation between parts; it automates repair and maintenance
processes and provides simple integrated Knowledge Management.

To use CFEngine effectively, you should spend a little time learning about the
approach to management, as this will save you a lot of time and effort in the
long run.

# The Mission Plan

At CFEngine, we refer to the management of your datacentre as *The Mission*. The
diagram below shows the main steps in preparing mission control. Some training
is recommended, and as much planning as you can manage in advance. Once a
mission is underway, you should expect to work by making small corrections to
the mission plan, rather than large risky changes.

![Mission Plan](./adopting-cfengine-mission-plan.png)

Planning does not mean sitting around a table, or in front of a whiteboard.
Successful planning is a dialogue between theory and practice. It should include
test pilots and proof-of-concept implementations.

# Commercial or Free?

The first decision you should make is whether you will choose a route of
commercial assistance or manage entirely on your own. You can choose different
levels of assistance, from just training, to consulting, to commercial versions
of the software that simplify certain processes and offer extended features.

At the very minimum, we recommend that you take a training course on CFEngine.
Users who don't train often end up using only a fraction of the software's
potential, and in a sub-optimal way. Think of this as an investment in your
future.

The advantages of the commercial products include greatly simplified set up
procedures, continuous monitoring and automatic knowledge integration. See the
CFEngine Nova Supplement for more information.

# Installation or Pilot

You are free to download Community Editions of CFEngine at any time to test the
software. There is a considerable amount of documentation and example policy
available on the cfengine.com web-site to try some simple examples of system
management.

If you intend to purchase a significant number of commercial licenses for
CFEngine software, you can request a pilot process, during which a specialist
will install and demonstrate the commercial edition on site.

# Identifying the Team

CFEngine will become a core discipline in your organization, taking you from
reactive fire-fighting to proactive and strategic practices. You should invest
in a team that embraces its methods. The CFEngine team will become the enabler
of business agility, security, reliability and standardization.

The CFEngine team needs to have administrator or super-user access to systems,
and it needs the *headroom* or *slack* to think strategically. It needs to build
up processes and workflows that address quality assurance and minimize the risk
of change.

All teams are important centres for knowledge, and you should provide incentives
to keep the core team strong and in constant dialogue with your organization's
strategic leadership. Treat your CFEngine team as a trusted partner in business.

# Training and Certification

Once you have tried the simplest examples using CFEngine, we recommend at least
three days of in-depth training. We can also arrange more in-depth training to
qualify as a CFEngine Mission Specialist.

# Mission Goal and Knowledge Management

The main aim of Knowledge Management is to learn from experience, and use the
accumulated learning to improve the predictability of workflow processes. During
every mission, there will be unexpected events, and an effective team will use
knowledge of past and present to respond to these unpredictable changes with
confidence

The goal of an IT mission is a predictable operational state that lives up to
specific policy-determined promises. You need to work out what this desired
state should be before you can achieve it. No one knows this exactly in advance,
and most organizations will change course over time. However, with good planning
and understanding of the mission, such adjustments to policy can be small and
regular.

Many small changes are less risky than few large changes, and the culture of
agility keeps everyone on their toes. Using CFEngine to run your mission, you
will learn to work pro-actively, adjusting the system by refining the mission
goal rather than reacting to unexpected events.

To work consistently and predictably, even when understaffed, requires a
strategy for describing system resources, policy and state. CFEngine can help
with all of these. See the Special Topics Guide on Knowledge Management.

A major component of a successful mission, is documenting intentions. What is
the goal, and how does it break down into concrete, achievable states? CFEngine
can help you in this process, with training and Professional Services, but you
must establish a culture of commitment to the mission and learn how to express
these commitments in terms of CFEngine promises.

# Build, Deploy, Manage, Audit

The four mission phases are sometimes referred to as

* Build

  A mission is based on decisions and resources that need to be put assembled or
  `built' before they can be applied. This is the planning phase.

  In CFEngine, what you build is a template of proposed promises for the
  machines in an organization such that, if the machines all make and keep these
  promises, the system will function seamlessly as planned. This is how it works
  in a human organization, and this is how is works for computers too.

* Deploy

    Deploying really means launching the policy into production. In CFEngine you
    simply publish your policy (in CFEngine parlance these are `promise
    proposals') and the machines see the new proposals and can adjust
    accordingly. Each machine runs an agent that is capable of keeping the
    system on course and maintaining it over time without further assistance.

* Manage

    Once a decision is made, unplanned events will occur. Such incidents
    traditionally set off alarms and humans rush to make new transactions to
    repair them. Under CFEngine guidance, the autonomous agent manages the
    system, and humans only manage knowledge and have to deal with rare events
    that cannot be dealt with automatically.

* Audit

    CFEngine performs continuous analysis and correction, and commercial
    editions generate explicit reports on mission status. Users can sit back and
    examine these reports to check mission progress, or examine the current
    state in relation to the knowledge map for the mission.

[Contact CFEngine](mailto:contact@cfengine.com)
